README.md, before:

# Musubi Tuner

[English](./README.md) | [日本語](./README.ja.md)

## Table of Contents

<details>
<summary>Click to expand</summary>

- [Musubi Tuner](#musubi-tuner)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Sponsors](#sponsors)
    - [Support the Project](#support-the-project)
    - [Recent Updates](#recent-updates)
    - [Releases](#releases)
    - [For Developers Using AI Coding Agents](#for-developers-using-ai-coding-agents)
  - [Overview](#overview)
    - [Hardware Requirements](#hardware-requirements)
    - [Features](#features)
    - [Documentation](#documentation)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [pip based installation](#pip-based-installation)
    - [uv based installation](#uv-based-installation-experimental)
    - [Linux/MacOS](#linuxmacos)
    - [Windows](#windows)
  - [Model Download](#model-download)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Dataset Configuration](#dataset-configuration)
    - [Pre-caching and Training](#pre-caching-and-training)
    - [Configuration of Accelerate](#configuration-of-accelerate)
    - [Training and Inference](#training-and-inference)
  - [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)
    - [SageAttention Installation](#sageattention-installation)
    - [PyTorch version](#pytorch-version)
  - [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

</details>

## Introduction

This repository provides scripts for training LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation) models with HunyuanVideo, Wan2.1/2.2, FramePack, FLUX.1 Kontext, and Qwen-Image architectures. 

This repository is unofficial and not affiliated with the official HunyuanVideo/Wan2.1/2.2/FramePack/FLUX.1 Kontext/Qwen-Image repositories.

*This repository is under development.*

### Sponsors

We are grateful to the following companies for their generous sponsorship:

<a href="https://aihub.co.jp/top-en">
  <img src="./images/logo_aihub.png" alt="AiHUB Inc." title="AiHUB Inc." height="100px">
</a>

### Support the Project

If you find this project helpful, please consider supporting its development via [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/kohya-ss/). Your support is greatly appreciated!

### Recent Updates

GitHub Discussions Enabled: We've enabled GitHub Discussions for community Q&A, knowledge sharing, and technical information exchange. Please use Issues for bug reports and feature requests, and Discussions for questions and sharing experiences. [Join the conversation →](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/discussions)

- November 16, 2025
    - Breaking Change: Fixed the argument for the `--compile_dynamic` option when using `torch.compile`. See [PR #727](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/727).
        - Changed to specify `true`, `false`, or `auto` for the `--compile_dynamic` argument. The default is equivalent to `auto`.
    - Experimentally changed so that the first step during training is not included in the elapsed time of the progress bar. See [PR #728](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/728). Feedback is welcome.

- November 15, 2025
    - Added support for `torch.compile` in training and inference scripts. See [PR #722](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/722).
        - By specifying the `--compile` option, training and inference will utilize `torch.compile`. Please refer to the [documentation](./docs/torch_compile.md) for details.

- November 2, 2025
    - Added `--use_pinned_memory_for_block_swap` option to each training script and improved the block swap process itself. See [PR #700](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/700).
        - When specified, this option uses pinned memory for block swap offloading. This may improve block swap performance. However, on Windows environments, it increases shared GPU memory usage. Please refer to the [documentation](./docs/hunyuan_video.md#memory-optimization) for details.
        - Since in some environments it may be faster not to specify `--use_pinned_memory_for_block_swap`, please try both options.

- October 26, 2025
    - Fixed a bug in Qwen-Image training where attention calculations were incorrect when the batch size was 2 or more and `--split_attn` was not specified. See [PR #688](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/688).
    - Added `--disable_numpy_memmap` option to Wan, FramePack, and Qwen-Image training and inference scripts. Thank you FurkanGozukara for [PR #681](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/681). Also see [PR #687](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/687).
        - When specified, this option disables numpy memory mapping during model loading. This may speed up model loading in some environments (e.g., RunPod), but increases RAM usage.

- October 25, 2025
    - Fixed a bug in image datasets with control images where the combination of target and control images was not loaded correctly. See [PR #684](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/684).
        - **If you are using an image dataset with control images, please recreate the latent cache.**
        - Since only the first match was used for judgment, when the target images were `a.png` and `ab.png`, and the control images were `a_1.png` and `ab_1.png`, both `a_1.png` and `ab_1.png` were combined with `a.png`.

### Releases

We are grateful to everyone who has been contributing to the Musubi Tuner ecosystem through documentation and third-party tools. To support these valuable contributions, we recommend working with our [releases](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/releases) as stable reference points, as this project is under active development and breaking changes may occur.

You can find the latest release and version history in our [releases page](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/releases).

### For Developers Using AI Coding Agents

This repository provides recommended instructions to help AI agents like Claude and Gemini understand our project context and coding standards.

To use them, you need to opt-in by creating your own configuration file in the project root.

**Quick Setup:**

1.  Create a `CLAUDE.md`, `GEMINI.md`, and/or `AGENTS.md` file in the project root.
2.  Add the following line to your `CLAUDE.md` to import the repository's recommended prompt (currently they are the almost same):

    ```markdown
    @./.ai/claude.prompt.md
    ```

    or for Gemini:

    ```markdown
    @./.ai/gemini.prompt.md
    ```

    You may be also import the prompt depending on the agent you are using with the custom prompt file such as `AGENTS.md`.

3.  You can now add your own personal instructions below the import line (e.g., `Always include a short summary of the change before diving into details.`).

This approach ensures that you have full control over the instructions given to your agent while benefiting from the shared project context. Your `CLAUDE.md`, `GEMINI.md` and `AGENTS.md` (as well as Claude's `.mcp.json`) are already listed in `.gitignore`, so they won't be committed to the repository.

## Overview

### Hardware Requirements

- VRAM: 12GB or more recommended for image training, 24GB or more for video training
    - *Actual requirements depend on resolution and training settings.* For 12GB, use a resolution of 960x544 or lower and use memory-saving options such as `--blocks_to_swap`, `--fp8_llm`, etc.
- Main Memory: 64GB or more recommended, 32GB + swap may work

### Features

- Memory-efficient implementation
- Windows compatibility confirmed (Linux compatibility confirmed by community)
- Multi-GPU training (using [Accelerate](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/index)), documentation will be added later

### Documentation

For detailed information on specific architectures, configurations, and advanced features, please refer to the documentation below.

**Architecture-specific:**
- [HunyuanVideo](./docs/hunyuan_video.md)
- [Wan2.1/2.2](./docs/wan.md)
- [Wan2.1/2.2 (Single Frame)](./docs/wan_1f.md)
- [FramePack](./docs/framepack.md)
- [FramePack (Single Frame)](./docs/framepack_1f.md)
- [FLUX.1 Kontext](./docs/flux_kontext.md)
- [Qwen-Image](./docs/qwen_image.md)

**Common Configuration & Usage:**
- [Dataset Configuration](./docs/dataset_config.md)
- [Advanced Configuration](./docs/advanced_config.md)
- [Sampling during Training](./docs/sampling_during_training.md)
- [Tools and Utilities](./docs/tools.md)
- [Using torch.compile](./docs/torch_compile.md)

## Installation

### pip based installation

Python 3.10 or later is required (verified with 3.10).

Create a virtual environment and install PyTorch and torchvision matching your CUDA version. 

PyTorch 2.5.1 or later is required (see [note](#PyTorch-version)).

```bash
pip install torch torchvision --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu124
```

Install the required dependencies using the following command.

```bash
pip install -e .
```

Optionally, you can use FlashAttention and SageAttention (**for inference only**; see [SageAttention Installation](#sageattention-installation) for installation instructions).

Optional dependencies for additional features:
- `ascii-magic`: Used for dataset verification
- `matplotlib`: Used for timestep visualization
- `tensorboard`: Used for logging training progress
- `prompt-toolkit`: Used for interactive prompt editing in Wan2.1 and FramePack inference scripts. If installed, it will be automatically used in interactive mode. Especially useful in Linux environments for easier prompt editing.

```bash
pip install ascii-magic matplotlib tensorboard prompt-toolkit
```

### uv based installation (experimental)

You can also install using uv, but installation with uv is experimental. Feedback is welcome.

1. Install uv (if not already present on your OS).

#### Linux/MacOS

```sh
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

Follow the instructions to add the uv path manually until you restart your session...

#### Windows

```powershell
powershell -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex"
```

Follow the instructions to add the uv path manually until you reboot your system... or just reboot your system at this point.

## Model Download

Model download procedures vary by architecture. Please refer to the architecture-specific documents in the [Documentation](#documentation) section for instructions.

## Usage


### Dataset Configuration

Please refer to [here](./docs/dataset_config.md).

### Pre-caching

Pre-caching procedures vary by architecture. Please refer to the architecture-specific documents in the [Documentation](#documentation) section for instructions.

### Configuration of Accelerate

Run `accelerate config` to configure Accelerate. Choose appropriate values for each question based on your environment (either input values directly or use arrow keys and enter to select; uppercase is default, so if the default value is fine, just press enter without inputting anything). For training with a single GPU, answer the questions as follows:

```txt
- In which compute environment are you running?: This machine
- Which type of machine are you using?: No distributed training
- Do you want to run your training on CPU only (even if a GPU / Apple Silicon / Ascend NPU device is available)?[yes/NO]: NO
- Do you wish to optimize your script with torch dynamo?[yes/NO]: NO
- Do you want to use DeepSpeed? [yes/NO]: NO
- What GPU(s) (by id) should be used for training on this machine as a comma-seperated list? [all]: all
- Would you like to enable numa efficiency? (Currently only supported on NVIDIA hardware). [yes/NO]: NO
- Do you wish to use mixed precision?: bf16
```

*Note*: In some cases, you may encounter the error `ValueError: fp16 mixed precision requires a GPU`. If this happens, answer "0" to the sixth question (`What GPU(s) (by id) should be used for training on this machine as a comma-separated list? [all]:`). This means that only the first GPU (id `0`) will be used.

### Training and Inference

Training and inference procedures vary significantly by architecture. Please refer to the architecture-specific documents in the [Documentation](#documentation) section and the various configuration documents for detailed instructions.

## Miscellaneous

### SageAttention Installation

sdbsd has provided a Windows-compatible SageAttention implementation and pre-built wheels here:  https://github.com/sdbds/SageAttention-for-windows. After installing triton, if your Python, PyTorch, and CUDA versions match, you can download and install the pre-built wheel from the [Releases](https://github.com/sdbds/SageAttention-for-windows/releases) page. Thanks to sdbsd for this contribution.

For reference, the build and installation instructions are as follows. You may need to update Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable to the latest version.

1. Download and install triton 3.1.0 wheel matching your Python version from [here](https://github.com/woct0rdho/triton-windows/releases/tag/v3.1.0-windows.post5).

2. Install Microsoft Visual Studio 2022 or Build Tools for Visual Studio 2022, configured for C++ builds.

3. Clone the SageAttention repository in your preferred directory:
    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/thu-ml/SageAttention.git
    ```

4. Open `x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022` from the Start menu under Visual Studio 2022.

5. Activate your venv, navigate to the SageAttention folder, and run the following command. If you get a DISTUTILS not configured error, set `set DISTUTILS_USE_SDK=1` and try again:
    ```shell
    python setup.py install
    ```

This completes the SageAttention installation.

### PyTorch version

If you specify `torch` for `--attn_mode`, use PyTorch 2.5.1 or later (earlier versions may result in black videos).

If you use an earlier version, use xformers or SageAttention.

## Disclaimer

This repository is unofficial and not affiliated with the official repositories of the supported architectures. 

This repository is experimental and under active development. While we welcome community usage and feedback, please note:

- This is not intended for production use
- Features and APIs may change without notice
- Some functionalities are still experimental and may not work as expected
- Video training features are still under development

If you encounter any issues or bugs, please create an Issue in this repository with:
- A detailed description of the problem
- Steps to reproduce
- Your environment details (OS, GPU, VRAM, Python version, etc.)
- Any relevant error messages or logs

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## License

Code under the `hunyuan_model` directory is modified from [HunyuanVideo](https://github.com/Tencent/HunyuanVideo) and follows their license.

Code under the `wan` directory is modified from [Wan2.1](https://github.com/Wan-Video/Wan2.1). The license is under the Apache License 2.0.

Code under the `frame_pack` directory is modified from [FramePack](https://github.com/lllyasviel/FramePack). The license is under the Apache License 2.0.

Other code is under the Apache License 2.0. Some code is copied and modified from Diffusers.

Commit message:

Add .gitignore patterns, PowerShell wrapper, ROCm stability fixes, and README updates
- Updated .gitignore with sensible patterns (logs, outputs, models, cache files)
- Created train_chani_full.ps1 PowerShell wrapper for Windows (calls bash script via WSL/Git Bash)
- Added apply_rocm_kernel_params.sh for ROCm stability kernel parameters
- Updated README with WAN 2.2 I2V training example and ROCm setup instructions
- Added HSA_XNACK=0 to train_chani_full.sh for RDNA3.5 stability

README.md, after:

# Musubi Tuner

[English](./README.md) | [日本語](./README.ja.md)

## Table of Contents

<details>
<summary>Click to expand</summary>

- [Musubi Tuner](#musubi-tuner)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Sponsors](#sponsors)
    - [Support the Project](#support-the-project)
    - [Recent Updates](#recent-updates)
    - [Releases](#releases)
    - [For Developers Using AI Coding Agents](#for-developers-using-ai-coding-agents)
  - [Overview](#overview)
    - [Hardware Requirements](#hardware-requirements)
    - [Features](#features)
    - [Documentation](#documentation)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [pip based installation](#pip-based-installation)
    - [uv based installation](#uv-based-installation-experimental)
    - [Linux/MacOS](#linuxmacos)
    - [Windows](#windows)
  - [Model Download](#model-download)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Dataset Configuration](#dataset-configuration)
    - [Pre-caching and Training](#pre-caching-and-training)
    - [Configuration of Accelerate](#configuration-of-accelerate)
    - [Training and Inference](#training-and-inference)
  - [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)
    - [SageAttention Installation](#sageattention-installation)
    - [PyTorch version](#pytorch-version)
  - [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

</details>

## Introduction

This repository provides scripts for training LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation) models with HunyuanVideo, Wan2.1/2.2, FramePack, FLUX.1 Kontext, and Qwen-Image architectures. 

This repository is unofficial and not affiliated with the official HunyuanVideo/Wan2.1/2.2/FramePack/FLUX.1 Kontext/Qwen-Image repositories.

*This repository is under development.*

### Sponsors

We are grateful to the following companies for their generous sponsorship:

<a href="https://aihub.co.jp/top-en">
  <img src="./images/logo_aihub.png" alt="AiHUB Inc." title="AiHUB Inc." height="100px">
</a>

### Support the Project

If you find this project helpful, please consider supporting its development via [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/kohya-ss/). Your support is greatly appreciated!

### Recent Updates

GitHub Discussions Enabled: We've enabled GitHub Discussions for community Q&A, knowledge sharing, and technical information exchange. Please use Issues for bug reports and feature requests, and Discussions for questions and sharing experiences. [Join the conversation →](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/discussions)

- November 16, 2025
    - Breaking Change: Fixed the argument for the `--compile_dynamic` option when using `torch.compile`. See [PR #727](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/727).
        - Changed to specify `true`, `false`, or `auto` for the `--compile_dynamic` argument. The default is equivalent to `auto`.
    - Experimentally changed so that the first step during training is not included in the elapsed time of the progress bar. See [PR #728](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/728). Feedback is welcome.

- November 15, 2025
    - Added support for `torch.compile` in training and inference scripts. See [PR #722](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/722).
        - By specifying the `--compile` option, training and inference will utilize `torch.compile`. Please refer to the [documentation](./docs/torch_compile.md) for details.

- November 2, 2025
    - Added `--use_pinned_memory_for_block_swap` option to each training script and improved the block swap process itself. See [PR #700](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/700).
        - When specified, this option uses pinned memory for block swap offloading. This may improve block swap performance. However, on Windows environments, it increases shared GPU memory usage. Please refer to the [documentation](./docs/hunyuan_video.md#memory-optimization) for details.
        - Since in some environments it may be faster not to specify `--use_pinned_memory_for_block_swap`, please try both options.

- October 26, 2025
    - Fixed a bug in Qwen-Image training where attention calculations were incorrect when the batch size was 2 or more and `--split_attn` was not specified. See [PR #688](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/688).
    - Added `--disable_numpy_memmap` option to Wan, FramePack, and Qwen-Image training and inference scripts. Thank you FurkanGozukara for [PR #681](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/681). Also see [PR #687](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/687).
        - When specified, this option disables numpy memory mapping during model loading. This may speed up model loading in some environments (e.g., RunPod), but increases RAM usage.

- October 25, 2025
    - Fixed a bug in image datasets with control images where the combination of target and control images was not loaded correctly. See [PR #684](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/pull/684).
        - **If you are using an image dataset with control images, please recreate the latent cache.**
        - Since only the first match was used for judgment, when the target images were `a.png` and `ab.png`, and the control images were `a_1.png` and `ab_1.png`, both `a_1.png` and `ab_1.png` were combined with `a.png`.

### Releases

We are grateful to everyone who has been contributing to the Musubi Tuner ecosystem through documentation and third-party tools. To support these valuable contributions, we recommend working with our [releases](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/releases) as stable reference points, as this project is under active development and breaking changes may occur.

You can find the latest release and version history in our [releases page](https://github.com/kohya-ss/musubi-tuner/releases).

### For Developers Using AI Coding Agents

This repository provides recommended instructions to help AI agents like Claude and Gemini understand our project context and coding standards.

To use them, you need to opt-in by creating your own configuration file in the project root.

**Quick Setup:**

1.  Create a `CLAUDE.md`, `GEMINI.md`, and/or `AGENTS.md` file in the project root.
2.  Add the following line to your `CLAUDE.md` to import the repository's recommended prompt (currently they are the almost same):

    ```markdown
    @./.ai/claude.prompt.md
    ```

    or for Gemini:

    ```markdown
    @./.ai/gemini.prompt.md
    ```

    You may be also import the prompt depending on the agent you are using with the custom prompt file such as `AGENTS.md`.

3.  You can now add your own personal instructions below the import line (e.g., `Always include a short summary of the change before diving into details.`).

This approach ensures that you have full control over the instructions given to your agent while benefiting from the shared project context. Your `CLAUDE.md`, `GEMINI.md` and `AGENTS.md` (as well as Claude's `.mcp.json`) are already listed in `.gitignore`, so they won't be committed to the repository.

## Overview

### Hardware Requirements

- VRAM: 12GB or more recommended for image training, 24GB or more for video training
    - *Actual requirements depend on resolution and training settings.* For 12GB, use a resolution of 960x544 or lower and use memory-saving options such as `--blocks_to_swap`, `--fp8_llm`, etc.
- Main Memory: 64GB or more recommended, 32GB + swap may work

### Features

- Memory-efficient implementation
- Windows compatibility confirmed (Linux compatibility confirmed by community)
- Multi-GPU training (using [Accelerate](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/index)), documentation will be added later

### Documentation

For detailed information on specific architectures, configurations, and advanced features, please refer to the documentation below.

**Architecture-specific:**
- [HunyuanVideo](./docs/hunyuan_video.md)
- [Wan2.1/2.2](./docs/wan.md)
- [Wan2.1/2.2 (Single Frame)](./docs/wan_1f.md)
- [FramePack](./docs/framepack.md)
- [FramePack (Single Frame)](./docs/framepack_1f.md)
- [FLUX.1 Kontext](./docs/flux_kontext.md)
- [Qwen-Image](./docs/qwen_image.md)

**Common Configuration & Usage:**
- [Dataset Configuration](./docs/dataset_config.md)
- [Advanced Configuration](./docs/advanced_config.md)
- [Sampling during Training](./docs/sampling_during_training.md)
- [Tools and Utilities](./docs/tools.md)
- [Using torch.compile](./docs/torch_compile.md)

## Installation

### pip based installation

Python 3.10 or later is required (verified with 3.10).

Create a virtual environment and install PyTorch and torchvision matching your CUDA version. 

PyTorch 2.5.1 or later is required (see [note](#PyTorch-version)).

```bash
pip install torch torchvision --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu124
```

Install the required dependencies using the following command.

```bash
pip install -e .
```

Optionally, you can use FlashAttention and SageAttention (**for inference only**; see [SageAttention Installation](#sageattention-installation) for installation instructions).

Optional dependencies for additional features:
- `ascii-magic`: Used for dataset verification
- `matplotlib`: Used for timestep visualization
- `tensorboard`: Used for logging training progress
- `prompt-toolkit`: Used for interactive prompt editing in Wan2.1 and FramePack inference scripts. If installed, it will be automatically used in interactive mode. Especially useful in Linux environments for easier prompt editing.

```bash
pip install ascii-magic matplotlib tensorboard prompt-toolkit
```

### uv based installation (experimental)

You can also install using uv, but installation with uv is experimental. Feedback is welcome.

1. Install uv (if not already present on your OS).

#### Linux/MacOS

```sh
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

Follow the instructions to add the uv path manually until you restart your session...

#### Windows

```powershell
powershell -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex"
```

Follow the instructions to add the uv path manually until you reboot your system... or just reboot your system at this point.

## Model Download

Model download procedures vary by architecture. Please refer to the architecture-specific documents in the [Documentation](#documentation) section for instructions.

## Usage


### Dataset Configuration

Please refer to [here](./docs/dataset_config.md).

### Pre-caching

Pre-caching procedures vary by architecture. Please refer to the architecture-specific documents in the [Documentation](#documentation) section for instructions.

### Configuration of Accelerate

Run `accelerate config` to configure Accelerate. Choose appropriate values for each question based on your environment (either input values directly or use arrow keys and enter to select; uppercase is default, so if the default value is fine, just press enter without inputting anything). For training with a single GPU, answer the questions as follows:

```txt
- In which compute environment are you running?: This machine
- Which type of machine are you using?: No distributed training
- Do you want to run your training on CPU only (even if a GPU / Apple Silicon / Ascend NPU device is available)?[yes/NO]: NO
- Do you wish to optimize your script with torch dynamo?[yes/NO]: NO
- Do you want to use DeepSpeed? [yes/NO]: NO
- What GPU(s) (by id) should be used for training on this machine as a comma-seperated list? [all]: all
- Would you like to enable numa efficiency? (Currently only supported on NVIDIA hardware). [yes/NO]: NO
- Do you wish to use mixed precision?: bf16
```

*Note*: In some cases, you may encounter the error `ValueError: fp16 mixed precision requires a GPU`. If this happens, answer "0" to the sixth question (`What GPU(s) (by id) should be used for training on this machine as a comma-separated list? [all]:`). This means that only the first GPU (id `0`) will be used.

### Training and Inference

Training and inference procedures vary significantly by architecture. Please refer to the architecture-specific documents in the [Documentation](#documentation) section and the various configuration documents for detailed instructions.

#### Example: WAN 2.2 I2V LoRA Training

For a complete example of training a LoRA with WAN 2.2 I2V, see the training scripts in the repository root:

- **Linux/Mac**: `train_chani_full.sh` - Bash script for WAN 2.2 I2V LoRA training
- **Windows**: `train_chani_full.ps1` - PowerShell wrapper that calls the bash script via WSL or Git Bash

These scripts include:
- ROCm stability optimizations (HSA_XNACK=0, kernel parameters)
- Proper attention mechanism selection (SDPA for compatibility)
- Gradient checkpointing for stability
- Resume functionality for interrupted training

**ROCm Setup (AMD GPUs):**

For RDNA3.5 GPUs (e.g., Strix Halo) on ROCm, additional stability fixes may be needed:

1. **Environment Variable** (applied automatically in scripts):
   ```bash
   export HSA_XNACK=0
   ```

2. **Kernel Parameters** (requires reboot):
   ```bash
   ./apply_rocm_kernel_params.sh
   ```
   This adds: `amdgpu.noretry=0 amdgpu.gpu_recovery=1 amdgpu.isolation=0`

See `train_chani_full.sh` and `apply_rocm_kernel_params.sh` for implementation details.

## Miscellaneous

### SageAttention Installation

sdbsd has provided a Windows-compatible SageAttention implementation and pre-built wheels here:  https://github.com/sdbds/SageAttention-for-windows. After installing triton, if your Python, PyTorch, and CUDA versions match, you can download and install the pre-built wheel from the [Releases](https://github.com/sdbds/SageAttention-for-windows/releases) page. Thanks to sdbsd for this contribution.

For reference, the build and installation instructions are as follows. You may need to update Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable to the latest version.

1. Download and install triton 3.1.0 wheel matching your Python version from [here](https://github.com/woct0rdho/triton-windows/releases/tag/v3.1.0-windows.post5).

2. Install Microsoft Visual Studio 2022 or Build Tools for Visual Studio 2022, configured for C++ builds.

3. Clone the SageAttention repository in your preferred directory:
    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/thu-ml/SageAttention.git
    ```

4. Open `x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022` from the Start menu under Visual Studio 2022.

5. Activate your venv, navigate to the SageAttention folder, and run the following command. If you get a DISTUTILS not configured error, set `set DISTUTILS_USE_SDK=1` and try again:
    ```shell
    python setup.py install
    ```

This completes the SageAttention installation.

### PyTorch version

If you specify `torch` for `--attn_mode`, use PyTorch 2.5.1 or later (earlier versions may result in black videos).

If you use an earlier version, use xformers or SageAttention.

## Disclaimer

This repository is unofficial and not affiliated with the official repositories of the supported architectures. 

This repository is experimental and under active development. While we welcome community usage and feedback, please note:

- This is not intended for production use
- Features and APIs may change without notice
- Some functionalities are still experimental and may not work as expected
- Video training features are still under development

If you encounter any issues or bugs, please create an Issue in this repository with:
- A detailed description of the problem
- Steps to reproduce
- Your environment details (OS, GPU, VRAM, Python version, etc.)
- Any relevant error messages or logs

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## License

Code under the `hunyuan_model` directory is modified from [HunyuanVideo](https://github.com/Tencent/HunyuanVideo) and follows their license.

Code under the `wan` directory is modified from [Wan2.1](https://github.com/Wan-Video/Wan2.1). The license is under the Apache License 2.0.

Code under the `frame_pack` directory is modified from [FramePack](https://github.com/lllyasviel/FramePack). The license is under the Apache License 2.0.

Other code is under the Apache License 2.0. Some code is copied and modified from Diffusers.
